doc/contributing/maintaining-types-for-nodejs.md, before:

# Maintaining types for Node.js

While JavaScript is an untyped language, there are a number of complementary
technologies like [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and
[Flow](https://flow.org/) which allow developers to use types within their
JavaScript projects. While many people don't use types, there are enough
who do that the project has agreed it's important to work towards having
[suitable types for end-users](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#suitable-types-for-end-users).

## High level approach

There are a number of ways that types could be maintained for Node.js ranging
from shipping them with the Node.js runtime to having them be externally
maintained.

The different options were discussed as part of the
[next-10](https://github.com/nodejs/next-10/blob/main/meetings/summit-nov-2021.md#suitable-types-for-end-users)
effort and it was agreed that maintaining them externally is the best approach.
Some of the advantages to this approach include:

* Node.js maintainers do not need to be familiar with any given type
  system/technology.
* Types can be updated without requiring Node.js releases.

The agreement was that the ideal flow would be as follows:

* APIs are added/documented in the existing Node.js markdown files.
* Automation in the Node.js project creates a machine readable JSON
  representation of the API from the documentation.
* Automation within external type projects consumes the JSON and automatically
  generates a PR to add the API.

## Generation/Consumption of machine readable JSON files

When you run `make doc` the canonical markdown files used to
document the Node.js APIs in the
[doc/api](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/doc/api)
directory are converted to both an `.html` file and a `.json` file.

As part of the regular build/release process both the `html` and
`json` files are published to [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/).

The generator that does the conversion is in the
[tools/doc](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/tools/doc)
directory.

## Markdown structure

The constraints required on the markdown files in the
[doc/api](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/doc/api) directory
in order to be able to generate the JSON files are defined in the
[documentation-style-guide](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/README.md#documentation-style-guide).

## Planned changes (as of Jan 1 2022)

While JSON files are already being generated and published, they are not
structured well enough for them to be easily consumed by the type projects.
Generally external teams need some custom scripts along with manual fixup
afterwards.

There is an ongoing effort to add additional markdown constraints and
then update the flow in order to be able to generate a better
JSON output.

Commit message:

doc: make minor fixes to contributing guides
PR-URL: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/41966
Reviewed-By: James M Snell <jasnell@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Derek Lewis <DerekNonGeneric@inf.is>
Reviewed-By: Antoine du Hamel <duhamelantoine1995@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Darshan Sen <raisinten@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Matteo Collina <matteo.collina@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Rich Trott <rtrott@gmail.com>

doc/contributing/maintaining-types-for-nodejs.md, after:

# Maintaining types for Node.js

While JavaScript is a weakly-typed language, there are some complementary tools
like [TypeScript][] and [Flow][], which allow developers to annotate the source
code of their JavaScript projects. While many people don't annotate their code,
or make use of annotations at all, there are enough who do that the project has
agreed it's important to work towards having [suitable types for end-users][].

## High level approach

There are a number of ways that types could be maintained for Node.js ranging
from shipping them with the Node.js runtime to having them be externally
maintained.

The different options were discussed as part of the [next-10][] effort and it
was agreed that maintaining them externally is the best approach.
Some of the advantages to this approach include:

* Node.js maintainers do not need to be familiar with any given type
  system/technology.
* Types can be updated without requiring Node.js releases.

The agreement was that the ideal flow would be as follows:

* APIs are added/documented in the existing Node.js markdown files.
* Automation in the Node.js project creates a machine readable JSON
  representation of the API from the documentation.
* Automation within external type projects consumes the JSON and automatically
  generates a PR to add the API.

## Generation/Consumption of machine readable JSON files

When you run `make doc` the canonical markdown files used to
document the Node.js APIs in the
[doc/api][]
directory are converted to both an `.html` file and a `.json` file.

As part of the regular build/release process both the `html` and
`json` files are published to [nodejs.org][].

The generator that does the conversion is in the
[tools/doc][]
directory.

## Markdown structure

The constraints required on the markdown files in the
[doc/api][] directory
in order to be able to generate the JSON files are defined in the
[documentation-style-guide][].

## Planned changes (as of Jan 1 2022)

While JSON files are already being generated and published, they are not
structured well enough for them to be easily consumed by the type projects.
Generally external teams need some custom scripts along with manual fixup
afterwards.

There is an ongoing effort to add additional markdown constraints and
then update the flow in order to be able to generate a better
JSON output.

[Flow]: https://flow.org/
[TypeScript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[doc/api]: https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/HEAD/doc/api
[documentation-style-guide]: https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/doc/README.md#documentation-style-guide
[next-10]: https://github.com/nodejs/next-10/blob/HEAD/meetings/summit-nov-2021.md#suitable-types-for-end-users
[nodejs.org]: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/
[suitable types for end-users]: https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#suitable-types-for-end-users
[tools/doc]: https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/HEAD/tools/doc
